So this is an anonymous interview with a gambling attendant. Um, so first I just want to ask, What is your target your general day / general shift at the pub.

So the pokies attendant shift is it starts at the latest, it and ends the latest as well. So we start around six, seven and go till 2am in the morning.

The whole shift is really just stay in the room making sure everyone feels comfortable.

What do you mean by comfortable?

So comfortable in their seats so they would not have to leave?

Right right. So you're you're gambling attendent and you had to work on the bar at all?.

And I don't go near  the bar at all. And if I come up, I get in trouble. For not being in the pokies room. I usually have to stay in there. 24 seven

So What's your title at the place at your place of work? What is your title?

I am a gaming attendant

so you're nothing to do with the bar you're you're hired full knowing that you're a  gaming attendant?

Yes. Okay.

Okay, so I can let And so with all this I mean, so I always get these questions up. One second. Yeah

Okay, so with your leadership like had What do you usually do? So you say can you get them comfortable? What do you do to keep them comfortable to get them in their seats?

We have a list of what kind of what our process is. So every time they walk in the room we greet them with our name and asked them if they want anything thing to eat or drink in which they almost always reply is yes so we we get them soft drinks, coffees and pop shop with chocolates juice anything that we have that's not alcohol for free

I guess I It's a lot of does a lot of it's like an airplane. It's very comfortable.

 It's we are glorified. waitresses in a way

that makes sense and so it's kind of like you're you're being paid to keep them in their seats.

Uh, yeah. And we fix machines and do other stuff too. But that's the one part of it.

Do you have like any history with working the machines directly?

No, but we we fixed the machines. If they display  problems actually. So If I freeze or begin bugging out we don't have to fix Oh, yeah. Like things we can't do. And we call a gambling machine attendant do that.

Okay, So with these people that come in so first of all, like do you have regulars?

We do Yeah,

And how how much a percentage of regulars would you have?

Well, we are a local sports bar. We are situated in an area that has quite a lot of areas coming on to it. It's a local for a lot of people. And I'd say about 80 to 90% of the people who come into our club are regulars.

Wow. So a 90% would you How many people do say the night for example? Like what's your average foot flow for traffic through?

Um, it depends on the night awake day is definitely a lot less during the day surprisingly there are quite a lot of people because the areas in a lot of businesses area They come for lunch, But I think most we get our own Friday and Saturday nights

Are friday and saturdays are the regulars.

Um, there are less regulars on Friday and Saturday night.

Okay, do any reasons that like why why would you think from your position?

A lot of people come in to do pres and stop by for a drink before they go places.

Yes.

The venue I work at? Yeah, has it is the closest train to all the surrounding areas. Okay. So It's a stop on a night out the city really

good for people around that area? You're like, you're you are very common area.

Yeah. So Yeah.

Going back to these regulars that you were saying before? Um, are there any like any common commonality between the regulars? Like if you could make a persona of the people like a character? What would that be?

Um, they are older,  Do You mean the regulars in the bar or the pokies?

In? Well, you only work in the gambling room. So stay where you feel comfortable?

Yeah.

 Okay. Well, that two different types.

Go for it

Yeah, so the regulars on the bar are usually older that old men Yeah, regulars in the gaming room are usually of the Asian demographic. Yep. Who are wide variety of ages. Actually. I've got a lot that are, you know, 20 to 25. Yep. They always come in pairs. Okay. I've got people who are, you know, 30 to 40. They usually come alone. And people who are upwards of 60 usually come alone.

Okay.

They personality wise.'d say they, they they don't really [talk]

They're very antisocial.

Yeah.

Or even the younger ones. They have. They come in in pairs, but they they don't talk at all. Yeah, Um, I think they have the ability to get frustrated a lot quicker than anyone in the bar would.

Why? Why would you? Why do you think that? Like? What's your sorry? Let me reframe it. What's your experience with that?

Um, well, why I think it is because I think with alcohol related frustration, it comes from someone or something. Yes, someone triggering them. But with gambling, why they get frustrated is because there's a high stake. Yeah, I have money involved. My experience from them. I've got a lot of them very negative experiences. Yeah, people getting angry at me constantly. If I take, you know, an extra minute to get that drink. scream at me. 

Can you tell me a story about that?

Yeah. Well, I can tell you the worst experience I had.

I had a shift. And this was like, seven o'clock on a Friday night. And usually the gaming room doesn't get popular until, like later on in the night. Yeah.

Because that's when people come into smoke.

So What did you do your outside area have a closing time for smoking? Yes. Okay. And after that, is that the only area that they can come and smoke? Yeah. Okay. Right. And continue.

Oh, yeah. So the room was crowded, but not as much. And I walked in, served someone drink and then I, this man have an Asian demographic, it was around 40 to start screaming. And I did not know what he was saying. But he was running around the room screaming his head off. screaming at people screaming at me. And he had been in there for I think 30 minutes. He put in a lot of money and just did not win. Right. And so I had to kick him out. But he didn't want to and it was a very big ordeal. But you know, I know no one knew what to do It's very scary. Yeah, Very

good. So that is that one of the times you really had to intervene.

It was the only time to intervene. Okay. We can are when they start dangering  the people around them.

Right. So talking more about these people in these part in this part of the bar. And where you work? Do you would you classify someone like that? He's put a lot of money and lost a lot. Sorry. would you classify him as a problem? gambler?

Yes. 

so you're not from a medical background are you?

from your third party perspective on  medically diagnosed Problem Gambling? Yeah. How, from your perspective, do you determine someone has a proper gambling problem?

Well, I learnt this from my RCG. And I've got

Ive got my RCG notes with me right now. Yeah. And they taught us that it's a gamble every day of the week, or a lot of times of the week. So that's why the the regulars and having someone becomes in constantly is a sign that they problem gamble.

With these problem gamblers. Gee, what what say, let me take a step back. What's the room like where they are gambling

The machines are very flashy and bright and colorful. And the sounds are are insane. Like You almost become death by the sounds

from working in the pub. Like from working at it? What What what are you feeling right after you leave your shift, I'm assuming you're not gambling. So what's your perspective?

Well, it's it's a it's a weird thing, because I am stuck in that room for seven eight hours. Yeah. So as soon as I see, you know, the outside and get fresh air. I you know, Rick always stuck in there with them. Um, I on a shift I have felt the urge to gamble myself, actually. Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah, I, I remember, because you, you see people, You don't, you don't see people losing, but you see them winning constantly. And when they when everyone in the room turns around looks, and it's very much a big ordeal even if they win $5 though, that, you know, everyone looks and I remember,

do you think them winning and telling everyone that one is a trigger for other people to keep on gambling?

Yeah, well, it was. It's a trigger for me. I can, it can, it displays how much money is won. And if they know they can constantly people winning, like more than I make in a week. It's always like, you know, for me that that urge came from, you know, I could, I could have a quick, you know, put $5 in and I wouldn't have to work this week. So.

So there is that urge you and you do you think the environment really because you work in the environment? Do you think that really adds to the effect?

I don't necessarily think the pokie room does I think the machines did for me

okay. Yep.

So the way the machines? Look, because the room itself has no fresh lights. It's quite dim. Yeah. The poker. The machine itself has the flashy lights are the same with the venue, like the room itself. It doesn't have any music, but the machines are the only ones making the music.

So do you think, for example, if you if you move the walls, you made the sounds and you're moved every part of every part you've just explained? What would you What is your opinion of these gamblers? What do you think they would do?

I definitely believe Still, I was still gamble rough. There's no doubt about it. Like We could not clean an area for several hours of a night and it would have been an ash embeded  everywhere people spit everywhere. Yeah. It would still gamble on that one machine because they think it's lucky.

So. So with these, with these people, You think do you think that we like giving another persona kind of thing or another like caricature of these people? Do you think that they they're so ingrained in this gambling, this gambling culture is they would do whatever it took?

Yeah, I am I

for being gambling attendent for a year. It at this point in time, that I think that the idea behind the pokies has been ingrained so much, that if they were, you know, on a deserted island, they would still probably have the urge to play it. Yeah. I, I think the venues and the machines obviously contribute a lot. But I do believe that it is the crave and the addiction to do it that, you know, this is the problem.

But do Do you think that addiction is more?  Do you think it's a really psychological front? Something that would need intervention by a psychologist and a third party to get them out of? Or do you think as a gambling attended something like self exclusion that some pubs have? Do you think that is enough?

 Yeah, that's what I find interesting is that, I definitely know you see these people. And I've, And it's, I don't think a lot could deter them. I think, you know, even if I wanted to legally I can. Individually, I can't ask them to be self excluded so they have to do it on their own initiative. And so I don't think people with an addiction believe they have an addiction.

Right.

So I don't think they would even try self exclusion. Right. Um, but yeah, it's definitely needing, you know, psychological help

Do you think that should be government? What's the word? A government intervention about having this psychological Help to be more open to the Gamblers?

Yeah, like we've tweaked?

And what's on the pamphlets are great. Like, if, if a normal person read the pamphlets, they would probably be detered from it and they get it. But I think once once, and the same with kind of any addiction once you get to a certain point. It always seems like, you know, these people definitely leave they can, like, weakness game, No doubt about it, and odds and chance that it doesn't make sense to them really

Do you think there's a certain personality type that is more prone to gambling? In your experience from working?

I've seen a lot of different people in that I think there's a certain that there's something that um, that people? I don't know, I don't know, maybe? I definitely think they think that they can win and maybe not supposed to know.

Do you want me to reframe the question?

Do you think that these people have I think they have an illusion of control?

Oh, yes. Yes. 100%.

If you if you went to any of them? And You said All right, quit tomorrow directly. They all could say that they could

No why?.

Yeah, I don't think any of them could quit my and none of them think that the machine is tricking them in any way. Yes, I'm thinking like that. But I think like what I say is definitely people thinking it's kind of like I'm almost like a game they could be and you need strategy to beat the game.

You think it's quite methodical in their head? Sorry. Do you think that they think that the gambling is quite methodical?

Yeah, yeah. That there is a process to it like if they press the button a certain way that they could change it? I've had people come up to me constantly. I think the one thing people come to me the most about is, which machine is lucky, I get that comment. Maybe 5-10 times a night?

And do you think that a lucky machine is this trigger for problem gambler? The keep going back to it? And going Okay. He's won $1,000. I mean, I can win $1,000 from the said machine.

Yeah.

He's, he can see that if if one machine isn't getting used, No one wouldn't really touch that machine for a while. Yeah. And they someone, like maybe new came in a couple of hours. They would try that machine. Yeah. Yet, people, I've had people come up to me. Someone recently said I'll pay you 20 bucks, if you can tell that person to get off that machine. And let me play. Wow. Yeah. So the specific type of machine is is definitely important to them.

Have you ever had a conversation with anyone?

I'm not legally allowed to.

Okay. Okay. So,

Okay. I'm with the pub.With this room. That's lowlit  with all these lights.

Yeah.

What else? In your mind? Do you think entices these people to gamble? And why?

Without the machine and what?

Yeah, so what what is the biggest pull for them for the machine? What does it give them

100% it has to be wanting to win or to gain more money. I think these people What I find for working bar and pokey is is that they're not only playing gambling, but they go to the tab that they are sports betting. They are serial gamblers. And I think what what is interesting in a way is that they in every case, they think they've got the mindset or the kind of maybe they believe that could have some superpower. Yeah, they can beat these olds, and that they're special compared to no one else.

Do you think that personality of them thinking that they can beat they can beat the odds? Do you think it's them who get further and further down the line of debt?

Oh, yeah, right. Those are the problem gamblers? I'd say no. But you can have a fun time thinking you might be able to think like, Yes, I like this machine is my own. They are the one with the rpoblem. Yeah. Whether or not they lose money. I Yeah, I think they think I think they think it's an investment. That it's like if they put a certain amount, like thousand dollars in that they would get a return. Yeah. Um, which they never do. Um, so yeah.

Okay, Yeah. Could you tell me more about the environment? So more about what legislation Do you have that's already in place that you find is helping to deter?

So we got the pamphlets.

Yeah.

Yeah. We have to have the sign all the machines.

What do the signs say?

Think about the odds usually. Yeah.

They got the number for the helpline. I think they are really really good.

Yeah.

Put it on the actual UI of the machine too

They are built the game. it flashes every five seconds.

Really?

Yeah. And they've got pamphlets, those little cards on every surface, including the side of machine as well. Yeah. So I'm like, venues and the government are trying but some things I like I can't do like if I see someone that I believe the problem gambler i cant say like, i cant interveen  Yeah. I can't push self exclusion. I even if they are excluded, I can't do much with that. Either. They are  restrictions around that.

Yeah.

What else?

I think I think one thing the government has done is reducing the hours of my even the pubs I think the lockout laws and, and having pubs close down earlier. Yeah. Well, at the end of the night on every shift like the pokies are where people are. So at 130 they can't gamble anymore.

What's your what's your experience when it hits? 130? What are the people like?

The people just don't want to go. That's, that's the main thing I've had, that we get the security guards in there. Because we we can't mainly kick a lot of people out. Unless we have good reason to do I Can they can like get us in trouble. Yeah, Yeah, exactly. When 10 to 1 30 comes, we get very excited because we do have legal obligation to kick them out. Because it's a trespassing thing from that point on place.

So it's a logical reason to get them out.

Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.They get very aggressive when we try. But um, yeah, we, It's great.

And is that the best part of the night?

is definitely the best.

Finish the shift and I have to clean up the whole room.

Exactly. And probably finish up. Pretty much. Let's have a look. So let me just read it. Read it myself. My questions. One sec.

So you've used the word problem gambler quite loosely with a lot of these people. Yeah. Do you find that that you are conditioned to treat these problem gamblers is just other gamblers. So you, you treat them as if they don't have an addiction?

Well, I'm going, We can't legally judge them any differently. It's the same with alcoholism. We can't refuse to serve someone just because we think they're an alcoholic. Unless they tell us themselves. And I think it relies on the individual to, you know, come up to me or anyone and say, Look, I'm struggling. Can you please limit me? Yeah. And at that point, we could.

Is that the only time you are allowed to interveen? Yes. Why do you think that is?

The law is crap. That's why.

All right, there it is.

Right. And If I missed anything.

Good, pretty good.

What in your opinion? So last one. What In your opinion? Do you think we can do better?

Um, I think that the main one is to change the laws, I think to probably get get the flashy lights and and the style of the machines back down to bare minimum. Right, like they would do in any other addiction.

I think like, have a better Help system as well. Because a lot of things people  do you think do you think a lot of these people are psychologically ill? Yeah.

I wouldn't say psychologically ill

I say someone in need of help,

Yes. Okay. These people are desperately in need of help. Yeah. And I think one thing that could be changed is their accessibility now. Yeah. Like these things cause and these things are placed everywhere, even like the other talking about a problem with gambling. It's not like we can help you. It's very much like, Help yourself. And, and that's not a really good, healthy mentality to be in against.

Exactly. Hey, thank you so much for talking to me. Thank you second time. Let me just stop the recording.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
