I'm Harrison. I'm currently studying at university, Sydney. And we're currently right now doing research on how different venues enable gambling, So how the pub enables Problem Gambling in a general sense. Its how Australian pubs and other establishments  enabled gambling.

Yeah. And from that how Problem Gambling? formulates?

Yeah, so can I grab where you work and what your title is there?

Where's this gonna be

publicized?

It's not gonna be published anywhere. It's gonna be an internal assessment. Otherwise, I can keep your name and name anonymous. And so and also your place of work if you like. Yeah, okay. No, I can do that. So I'll remove everything we said at the start. So What's your

profession? What's your job?

Outreach, An outreach gambling counselor,

Group facilitator inhouse groups and help with  education and outreach of gambling counseling.

Okay. Okay. And tell me about a bit about yourself, obviously, without really revealing any personal information. What's your history?

I come from a lived experience. So I'm in recovery. Yes. And I'm very active in gamblers anonymous.

And How long if you don't mind me asking? Are you in recovery for? Yeah.

It's my anniversary of 16 years. This month,

Congratulations. That's amazing.

So, you know, in a general sense, Tell me about your day to day. Tell me about the people you see

I see that are referred mandated clients, or self referred clients with AoD and gambling issues. Okay.

 And Tell me more about the self mandated versus self admission clients

Yeah, The obvious stuff around that is the mandated clients want a little bit more resistance? Yeah. So our program enables them to sort of like, just roll with it.

 Okay, so it's quite a relaxed system?

Message of recovery plan, we plant the seed and if they want to ever use it they can use it

The mandated clients just seem to be a bit more guarded. The self refers are just people hurting so much that they have got to something about it

So with this, what people in? Is there a commonality? Like the self admission? For sorry for people it is self admitted? What is the commonality?

Well their life have just become unmanaged? It could be legal and financial

Do What do you find more? Do you find what what is the biggest driving factor? Do you find

Oh the financial stuff, but there might be homeless? End of the line, child might be around the corner for

Do you find that there is a certain personality? Or do you find that it's more of a broad spectrum of people?

Broad specturm, defiently. Yeah were out here at Fairfield, we get alot of the Iraqi community, Vietnamese  Westerners, Aussies, the Chinese Young at all, all different positions.

So do you find with that, What with all these personality types and the spectrum, what is your go to approach because everyone's so different?

Get him to commit, to commit to our program here, which is one on one counseling along with the group work hand in hand to give up? Yeah, We line them up for a  We got we got a six week program in house group.

And then the way away we go from there We just I just reassure them that they're in the right place, and  just for everybody really want to do They have to commit to some sort of commitment to work with around the hours working, if they are working, working or 

So there's different times and days. We trying to get him into a plan. Just empower them to go to work with a plan which the treatment stuff from here

Yeah, that's, that's really interesting. Do you find that in terms of those people that need more support is a Let me let me refrain  Is there a commonality between them of why they end up in the clinic

Not really, alot of them are adult children of gamblers Just like the alcoholism or something, so that can be nationalities, the Asian community are prone to it? You know, they're very big on the gambling stuff.It does vary

with this variety that these, this, what we just said, How do you determine that someone has a problem when they come in? I know they've brought themselves to the clinic?

Well, well, yeah. Well, you just ask them in our assessment process, like we have a screening system, we ask where they are at. We have this screening system. but it's just generally like, what's the problem? All you and I have that conversation will be around, I am going to lose the house. So there will be some financial counseling involved as well. And then we tuned in more about the money that's coming around. stuff. That's the point and stuff  can be so much much more about the  money. It really does varies. 

Do you find that as a lot of variety you saying like in terms of treatment in terms of people in terms of meaning

Well I've been recovery services for a while, and I come from a lived experience you know.  So I know whats worked for me so I can assume that it will work for some other people, you know?

It's more if  I wear  my professional hat or my recovery hat. There's a lot of evidence out there. Yeah, the best support for the people gambling is about stopping gambling, but then its  about the change underneath it all.Where I get the best result from what I've observed over the years is there the groups with the counseling helps heaps

So like a counciling group?

Yeah so like a councilling one on one  We they need a inhouse  group for gamblers anonymous?

Okay,  why do you think that works?

Yeah so they identify with the other people, it gives them some support? So The thing is, with the group's it's very powerful, even our in house groups, we say we get the best results, because there is this thing, even the mandated resistance. Because when they start hearing people being honest thats when they feel like I'm not the only person with this stuff, because there is just so much shame associated with this stuff. 

The decision to gamble is like having a skew moral compass.

So like with this, like a moral compass, or like the illusion of control? Do you find that that is a big factor that is like very common between them all?

We call it like an emotional disease, its a very emotional thing this stuff, when they get into that stuff,  they are quite delusional, its a fantasy world, you know, the big wins just around the corner and in gambling is the only addiction If you want to compare it to alcohol and drugs. Gambling is the only addiction that tells you that with the next win, I am going to get better. Like the next time I use, theres a chance im going to get well

Yeah why do you think that? Is its the money side?

Yeah and the alcoholic and the drug addicts dont think like that, you know

Yeah, of course, they're doing it because of a necessity Do you think that this chasing of like this,do you think that this chasing of the goal is that a big part that plays into the addiction?

 Oh yeah, 100% and then it becomes this obession to cover their asses

Yeah, exactly becomes an obsession.

Lot of the people I get the people I work with, when I'm talking about this stuff is these people just gamble for the escape eventually

And So do you find that this Escape is totally contextual, like stuff going on around them? Like family issues, money issues?

Oh yeah 100%, alot of is it past trauma,

Right? That's really that's really hard

But you need to have that addictive personality yet.

Yeah, of course. You need to have that onset. Do You think? No.  Do you think someone can be born a problem  gambling? 

Yeah, yeah. Yeah.

I believe its part genetic, Genetic experience. Its a learnt behaviour Okay. Yeah. Its Environmental Yeah. Yeah, definitely made the genetics the ones that I work with be. its the same as when you when you getting into alcoholism or drug addiction, especially I'll call it because it's genetic. And ive seen it with AA too. Its very similar Yeah, it defiently goes through generations

Okay. would you would you be comfortable talking about your own first hand experience of if you don't want 

Yeah.

So

 what do you what do you think what made you start gambling

Well it was in for from a very young age with a thing excited me for games it taught me from a young age you know card games with the families the blanket on the table the stacks of money pinball machines become unmanageable pinball machines I was so fancinated with that stuff. and I can recall right back to my teen teen years you and I went gambling these guys used to be the circle people and we used to play roulette or any type of board game were excited to get  that rush

And did you go from that board game like mentality going further with the money and the like the gambling like in the in the pokies and all that?

Well, it was one of my things . sports gaming was  one of my biggest things, sort of in the end of this it was just gambling full stop that excited me But Yeah, I didn't realize

What point   did you say I have an addiction?

Well, you know, alcohol and drugs. I was in the sports. So you know my father was a gambler to I was inevitably going to become a gambler. My life and addiction was justisfied by my fathers gambling and drinking.

Okay, so do you think that played a big role?

Well yeah, its because I used to blame it on him but I ended worse than what he was ever So I used to see him in of clients and other people through the group. So they go my dad and mum were like that but then they end  up doing like that but worse. So many choices I learned out of it. I was never going to think my way out of it, I was in it. Bu

The commonality factor that they all had is that they all started off with that big win. Sorry I dont like to call it a win, I like to call it a return

Okay, so it's more than idea of chasing your loss.

Well, now that had that big return. A lot of people say that it wasn't real gamble when they start off. I used to get a phrase and I'll put that 20 and then the lnik comes up and then I won all these money all of a sudden, yeah, And then they think what else can I win and that's, that's the big, big catch. I would say 90% of the people that their stories if they have that  first win experience.

Again, that makes sense. That's more like it's the whole idea that this first experience is what really triggers them to fall into this addiction.

Yeah it tips you over? 

Yeah, exactly. And then when I get into this mindset that they think the next win is just around the corner again. They are just chasing that idea

And they're chasing that big win once again.

Yeah, yeah. Really nice to go back to this delusional thinking yeah,

yeah, exactly.

What what in you  made you say that you had a problem?

I had a problem because when you start the secretive about everything And when you start doing it a lot and it's not a social thing. then you cannot pay the rent then youre driving around in an unregistered cars. And then you cant pay the mortage then you sell the house. On it goes, on it goes

We did we did you did you go to treatment or did you were you did you help yourself? 

No I went into treatment or when in residential rehab when I first got introduced But I didn't stop It goes through hell and back until I really addressed my gambling and that's another thing that I see very common you know a lot of people. Its like any addiction, its like any love just like alcoholism , they lost it to normalcy You know went through that years. Well not years, I got out of control when I was about 22-23. i was, you know, nearly homeless or something by the time I was in my early 30s

You know, relationship breakdown, borrowing money. Thats when you start realsing

That really triggered you to go Okay, it's time

Well, no. no it really didnt. It didn't take what it took. The first time I got help,  the girlfriend I had at the time  had had a gut full of all my ducking and weaving and my lies. Then I movedin with my mother and my stepfather because I had nowhere to live. Yeah, At the time I was not employed. And then while they went away one weekend I took some of their possessions to the local off shop and offed the stuff then tried to get back the money gambling

Wow, that's really intense.

After that, you, they come back earlier than I suspect and they realised I had a massive problem

First intervention to solve the problem. So I went to my first time I went to residential rehab.

 Okay, and then from that how many how long did it take you to you decide to yourself? Okay, I'm better

Oh well that can change.

exactly do you think do you think that's a spectrum? Do you think that you can't define

There is no date and time, its a progession with stages. but I have the obsession to gamble for years because I'm grounded now. around that but I relapsed after five years.

Oh Wow. That was a really hard

Yeah. I relapsed. God I didnt gamble for five years after the residental rehab And again I got a job a Qantas. And then I got stuck, I didnt go to meetings and I forgot who I was and you know, new girlfriend and you know didnt know my reputation So I put myself on show. I earned alot of money and stuff . And then I went into a ten dollar tipping competition at work and every year the competition was on and I usually say no no no, but then one year I said "yeah alright". And it was just like flicking on the switch

Yeah

Yeah And then within the first week, I was out of the tipping competition and it was every week, tipping on the football. And I started gambling on games. That worked for a little bit in secret because everyone knew I didnt gamble anymore, but that secretly faded stragiht away. Then I joined a secret sports betting thing, then I owed them lots of money and then I was under financial strain and I was about to go away. And the new girlfriend at the time is going with me. So then I commited grand larceny at the airport I was working at.

Wow what Tell me about that

I stole money out of an airplane that I was loading onto a flight. It was one in a million opportunity and I just took a bundle of French francs I didn't know how much it was going to be. I went to cash one inand it was about $55,000 and then I had the Federal Police coming to Qantas and I had to save face and then they couldnt prove it was me.

I had anxiety for weeks and then when I felt like that I had to go gamble more days off work and then I just handed myself into the police gave it 

yeah exactly you couldn't live with it

Went back to rehab

If you go back and say what what did everyone misconcieve about your addiction What did you What did you know that no one else did

It was the debt, it was the debt. I couldnt front up. Maybe its from m y younger self or something. I couldnt just buckle down and say ok we owe this amount of money lets work for it. Thats just not my mindsets.

Right so it was all about the gambling Yeah and part of the gambling thing. Its another common thing to that is  comes out, maybe years in recovery but it was like I was gambling to punish myself, it was that kind of thing. You never its inevitable that it is going to happen one day

Right, with that, do you see alot of self deprecating or like other mental illnesses that come as a come with problematic gambling. So like problem gamblers I come in, Do you find that they also have symptoms of anxiety and depression?

Yeah, Yeah, definitely. It comes first before gambling

Do you think thats a big part of whatcauses Problem Gambling?

Yeah and its also past trauma like it was with me, there was a big secret. So that's me. That's another thing I was coming up therapy. That's What I do in the steps at GA. It's about getting honest about everything.

Very common cost right. Over that stuff. Its just pure insanity. The personality brings it back to the genetics. Yeah. Alot of them are overthinkers, theyre also really sensitive. They also have a high expectation of themselves and are often very critical

They always have high expectations, they are just never feeling like they are up to the mark.  Theyre highly critical over themsleves and then from that whole thing, its just their addictive personality. That's that that's the whole thing, its their personality that plays into it, they are just like that. The main thing is that their overthinkers

From all that conjunction of mental illness, past trauma, all that? Do you think that the venues that gambling is at enables Problem Gambling? Like do you think that the pubs?

Not really no, 

Do you think it's all internal?

Yeah, yeah, like when I'm not in the business of blaming establishments and stuff like that. Look at it. In a responsible because there's always a lot of people that can gamble responsibly, but the people with an addictive personality or the one like me, or the ones that I work with,

Yeah.

Yeah. I've got got my my best friend, but hes a gambler. Hes like a brother He's responsible family, man, he can get up. He can take care of his kids and have fun

For myself as a gambler, it consumed everyday of my life. I was always trying to get the money to gamble, trying to get the time to gamble. I was always obsessed with it

Yeah, exactly. So it's all about that, like that desire, internal desire

Yeah exactly, it all comes down to that addictive personality. Its obessive compulsive

And do you think?

Let me have a look at all my questions. I think we've hit them all. Sorry. No, no, you You're amazing. I think we've hit them all.

So last few questions. I'll let you go. So with this treatment at GA, can you tell me of some of the steps that you do.

Yeah. Well, there's concentrate on you know, just concentrate on this just on uncertanity of that first step. People are powerless over that first bit. So it's about having that first bit like a first drink to an alcoholic. So that would be the first being so that first step is the one that we need to do I people come in I think they got that desire stuff, but it's very powerful. Yeah. They come in and say that they are going to be different, that they will be able to control it. Like, all the groups are doing that. The greatest obsession of any addict is that they want to be able to control their use

 Do you think there's more? So do you think more people want to control it? Rather than Stop it? 

Yeah, same with me- I thought I was just in control, I was delusion. Exactly, yeah, I always though that  the next win was going to be around the corner that I was gonna be all right. I need to gamble a bit harder It's about again, You know, I learned that as a young child, its not ok surrender and its not ok to put your hand up and ask for help.

Exactly. It's all about that pride, too. 

And the first step says, Wait a minute, we're powerless over again, we made our lives could become unmanageable with gambling

Okay, that's really that's really interesting. And What can you tell me about some more steps after that, after you've established that lack of control

I talk about a higher power and understanding so it's about handing it over and it's about stepping aside really. For addicts, what they are searching for is this moral and financial symmetry

For this, we have these mentors and sponsors that you sit down with I'll sit down now with them and well just let them write  books and books and books about their moral inventory And just let them write about who they were a person and what they did. They also do one for their financial inventory too and then you have to go and admit to someone about your addiction. Some people go to you know, tasome people might go to like clergyman or priest or like they sponsor that promote us and they sit down and they talk about all these confessions to someone.

 And it's about its about the character defects and about change and about how you can respond to things and just looking at everything and knowing what you changed

Eventually, what's the goal? What's The end goal?

And all it's about helping someone else.

It's about then you get there and then what happens is you share your experience and then then that then a newcomer comes when you be able to help someone else with your story. It keeps you grounded, it keeps you humble you know, maybe that's the challenge to get some humility about his stuff because everyone is still an addict technically. Then steps eight and nine are about making mends with people you effected with your gambling. Its quite a long process.

Well, I think we've I think we've hit everything.

Oh one thing I forgot to mention that in group discussions, theres that power of identification. Alot of people quite relieved when they come in like someone else just told my story. Yeah, I thought I was the only one that was like this. So I could feel quite a relief because I can talk about it in the group with I can talk about it with a family and friends. Maybe they counsel I came but while they doing, the groups are good for this stuff to talk about. And then they might deal with their trauma, their past trauma with a counselor here where you won't talk about

But you want to share experiences, you want to lean on shoulder

And yeah its about people getting their times up. Getting 30, 90, months years without gambling. You give them support. Because without this support they end up very lonely, yeah and they just need a shoulder

Well, thank thank you so much, Mark, and you've been really helpful. So Thank you

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
