Okay. No worries.

So, as I said, I'm Harrison I'm studying design. What I'm really interested in is just like that generic overview question. I said, Gee. And what that was, is the how we, how society and the community enables problem gambling, and how we treat them. And I'm finding it within the Australian pubs, just excluding casinos just for this research for x y&z reasons. Anyone can just for the recording, Can you just state your title and your position at the game liquid?

Yes, sir. My name is Chris Hunt, and I'm a clinical psychologist here at the gambling treatment clinic at the university. Sydney.

Yeah, perfect. And I'm trying to disclose that it's clear. Do you modify this move up? That's Okay. Yeah, just so it's a bit clear.

Next, set, make my life easier in the future.

And working at the gambling clinic, how long have you worked here, firs tof all?

So I've been here since 12 years.

Yeah, What brought you here, but what attracted you to this side of psychology?

To be honest, it was just sort of a job that I got when I finished university. But I really enjoyed working here. And I've enjoyed. Yeah, the sort of things that we do here. So yeah, so stay here for time.

Okay. And like, for 12 years, you'd see a lot of people I assume. Yeah.

Yeah, You have a lot of stories, obviously. Obviously, you can't share them. But like you have a lot of

Yes. Yes, I have seen quite a few problem gamblers as well as sort of affected loved ones in the time ive been here

in like a normal day at the clinic. That's all like how many patients you see that I usually meet personally. Oh, the whole clinic? You personally.

Um, it depends. Because my role here is I'm more sort of doing supervisory type things. Okay. So on a day where I see patients, I'd see four or five figure around a day, Other days, I might see one or two, Not even.

So I like that, because you're obviously supervising taking care of the whole clinic. What's like a normal day for you. So like you said, some days, you see four and five, and some that you see one, on those days, we see a lot of patients looks like a normal, day to day routine for you. Like, when you come and come into the clinic, Like, do you get a lot of regular patients? or?

Yeah, so it's, we don't do walk in? So Yes, it is we have people make appointments that we Yes, if you will, for regular sessions, usually once a week, for a couple of months. And then after that, some people usually finish up then and other people might come in, sort of once a month, or every now and again, or whatever the case may be,

And in that factor, like people having to come at different times? I essentially this is an email questions, thinking, but um, in terms of like, the regular treatment, What's the kind of what's the decision you make in terms of how often people have to come back and say, or is it a personal choice

It really depends on the person. So we recommend that everyone comes in weekly when they first come in. Okay,

Why is it weekly?

just so that they can consolidate what we sort of working on? Okay, and so usually it's weekly, usually, two months or so. And then after that it might either drop down, or  they might finish there, depending on the person or? Yeah, it really depends often that

you said, you don't take walk ins, in when someone comes in. First of all, bring someone here, like, what's the main reason you see someone to come in for ? Like what but like, what, what triggers in their minds, I need to go to the clinic.

Yeah, usually, there is some sort of event that's got them to think about it. So typically, it's that there's some sort of, we call it a crisis event, but not necessarily as dramatic as that sometimes it could be something like a like

They've had to borrow money from someone, or

even if they ever pay a bill on time or something like that. That means that either they made the decision on their own back to come in or, you know, people in their family encourage them to come in. That's typical. But it's not always the case. Sometimes you could just reach the point on their own where they feel that they just don't want to do this anymore. But usually, there's some sort of precipitating event.

Okay, and you say, so you say, more precipitating events, and then anything? That's really interesting. So like, in terms of stepping back from that, so let's say when they come in, and they've told you their problem Gambler, pops in your head, You're, you're treating for that problem,? 

I guess, Yeah. What's the line? Because like, I know, I'm 20 years old. And I know I don't personally, but a lot of my friends will feed $20 into this machine, or that was the one you make as like, obviously, I feel like it's with the research I've done. There's not a lot of standardization?

it's not that there's really sort of a very clear line that if you gamble, this much your problem gambler if you get the list and if youre not on the list, youre not.  so it's not as easy as is that. Typically, it's looked in reference by the to what the person's income is quicker,

Or in reference

to days, like a set of criteria that define what's called a gambling disorder.

Do you have the criteria? And you don't you have to give it a deal?

Yeah, it is. It's a book called the DSM, which is like a list of all Yeah, recognized mental disorders. Yeah. And they have nine criteria for gambling. And if you make more than four of them then you classify to have a gambling disorder, Yeah. But a problem gambler is essentially defined in Australia, as anyone who is experiencing any sort of harm as a result of a gambling. So usually, that's what we're talking about. There's no clear line, but there's sort of two sort of questions that sort of you would ask, like, if you say, I don't know, like a non gambling specialist, that is things like, are you lying about how much you gamble? And Do you have a bet more than you intend to? And if you're regularly saying yes to both those questions, That's when it's likely to be.

Okay. And I've seen like that really interesting. Because I've seen like, I feel like I've seen those two questions whenever I go to the pub, and then there's little placards. Yeah. Do you with our treatment of gambling in these contexts? So like those placards, we put, What's your opinion on them? Like what? as a, as someone in the industry? How, how do you think the government is treating the problem gambling sphere? And how do you think they're enabling it? In this context? What's your opinion?

Very Good question. So

Yes, we can we can come back to?

Look, I think there definitely is a lot more awareness about problem gambling, and there was there was even say 10-20 years ago.

So I definitely think, you know, those sorts of reminders are helpful for some people, obviously, that not,

you know, an intervention or treatment in love themselves. But they are definitely something that could remind people and encourage people to to sort of think differently about things.

Yeah, yeah. I was looking at a study was on the train, because people, so a long time, as I was reading through, and I didn't know that recently, released on this article, I was reading, this is legislation that was moved, I can't I can't remember the date for life of me. But it was, you know, all the pokies rooms are now called the VIP room, a lot of these places because of the removal of the marketing of it. Do you think that has had a better effect? Like instead of being able to market saying, a gambling room, you have to say, I was

talking about the changes the result of that? Because that's something that's been in place for a very, very long time? You do so? Yeah, that's been sort of a consistent role with pretty much since that being introduced into pubs. Like, oh, yeah, so you can't really say what it's like without it, because it's,

it's been? I know, I saw I saw it on the way here, so

I haven't going to kind of jump just so that one took a bit.

So bringing back to when talking about people coming into the clinic, and they the line between casual and problem. When they come in, do you find obviously you can't give exact? What's it called exact examples, because of patients Do you find there's a lot of other illnesses,  mentally or even physically, that come with problem gambling?

as a result of as a result of lack, it's

very common for people who have gambling problems, particularly at the most of the end to have symptoms of depression and anxiety.

You know, why is that is

Because they dont have money and not having money causes stress

is that is that is it as simple as not having money.

It's not as simple as that. But then the main causal pathway is the main, the main way that gambling causes harms is that it takes away people's money. Like It's not like drugs and alcohol, where there's a, you know, physical changes to the body as a result of a chemical going in do, the main reason why gambling is harmful is because you spend your money. And most of the other harms of gambling tend to follow secondarily from that. Okay. That said, There is evidence that people do experience various forms of stress, due to gambling because of having to lie to their partners and people around them all because they're feeling like they're out of control. However, the main reason they lie to their partners is because of the market interest. So most of the players again, like I seem to be directly related to the amount of money that someone's lost relative to their income.

Okay, that makes us

And it is quite common for people who are experiencing financial stress to experience symptoms of depression and anxiety. So Yeah, it's statistically there's also a high rate of correlation between

people have a gambling problem. People have problems with drugs and alcohol.

Yeah, ok.

But it's it's unclear as to what the pathway is.

Because I read a statistic saying it was something like if you're a problem gambler problem gambling you have a  50% more chance of being a smoker.

Also. Yeah, The thing is, gambling and smoking do go together very closely. And no one's particularly studied it, because in terms of like, psychological disorder, isn't nicotine dependence doesn't tend to cause psychological problems. So no one's really sort of spent a lot of time studying it. But pretty much all most problem gamblers smoke.

Oh, yeah. . So You said there's no like, no, there's no like, dependence, as you said,

There is a dependence on nicontine

Nicotine? No, no, we know that. We know that. But I mean, like, have you found with treating these So You said there's a high percentage of

depression, anxiety within

 depression, anxiety, symptoms.

What do you treat, First? 

The gambling? 

Why?

 Because as long as they're continuing to gambling and continue to lose money, then all of the other problems are likely to be exacerbated?

In your experience, has that method been effective, usually?

Unless someone has particularly severe depressive symptoms, but usually that works. Okay.

And in your background, so you basically, in the again, clinic, do he do deal with a mental illness also, like just right out? Not gambling?

We we do have other programs that aren't necessarily exclusive to gamblers, Yes. Okay.

This is actually a really big clinic haha

agenda, going back to having these coexisting like conditions. It said, you know, yourself with as much research going into why, Like, say, if someone does have a major depressive depression symptoms, It's a lot of research going into the correlation, if it's not just money, as you said, like, if, if

at like, the definitely are people, there are people who do present and when you go through the history, they were depressed before they gambled. And most people it is that they depressed after they become depressed after their gambling comes from a medic. And usually with people like that, once they stop gambling, then depression symptoms lift.

OK.

These, as I said that there is a subgroup who have depressive symptoms that predate their gambling. And usually they would require, like additional therapy work after the gambling is stopped.

Okay, so and then that makes a lot of sense. So once you take away the gambling, Yeah, you're left with the symptoms. Okay. And do your yourself deal. Since you're with again, Send them somewhere else who would?

Yeah, he's got a good relationship with them. Yeah, we would keep

them. What's the point? Send him somewhere else? I saw that from zero.

That makes sense.

Let me, let me just remind myself, just some key points.

Okay, so going towards kind of these psychological pools we have with gambling and the my course, I don't know if I really explained to you it's like a user interface course. Which is like how your screen looks and the design of it. That's What I do. Yeah. And so I'm in computing. And I also do marketing. Yeah, to do SW. Great. So as a big part, my one of my other friends in the group is doing more of the user interface part of it on the psychology of there's a lot of research going into kind of how the psychology of that the interface side the lights sounds, how the screen looks. Do you think that in your experience that you think that has a psychological pull in any way?

I Look, I think it's very secondary. I think when you look at you know, Problem Gambling has existed for a long as gambling has, Yeah, like, long before poker machines were ever conceived of. So You know, there's, if you go through knows, you know, set for 500 years ago, there's stories about people who have problems on dice games, or roulette or what,

Yeah.

You know, up until like this, you know, stories and problem gamblers to 3000 years old. So I don't think that these things are the explanation for gambling, I think the sort of the lights and sounds become pair through what we call in psychology, like classical conditioning. But really the thing that gamblings are was a chasing isn't the lights and sounds when

it's the win? Yeah. And so I know somebody's making their chasing, but do you think it adds to the pull of the machine? Like, because I found, for example, Aristocrat, which is one of the biggest manufacturers, they make a lot of the big poker machines here. And they also make a lot of kids games, like kids apps, and yet, do That's a quite a scary correlation. In an outside perspective, do you think, in the same way that social media is designed that these, this user interface design has a secondary problematic effect for like a psycho look

like a secondary? In what, in what sense? Like, if you

if you are already hooked on gambling? Do you think that a way for you to keep a way to keep you in and a way to keep you returning would be the Latin sounds? atmosphere that?

Look, I obviously these things are designed in a way that they're appealing to people. Whether that's that design is enough to say that these things are causing people to come back in I think, is a is another question that I think,

is quite difficult to answer.

Because I think, you know, these symbols are essentially meaningless until they've been paired with something. So You know, if you have someone that's not a problem Gambler, and show them like, you know, I could put on YouTube, anything now is not going to do anything to them. Exactly. So these things are only powerful in so much as that they appear to something else. And I think the fact that they're relatively simple actually makes it easier to pair rather than their sort of any sort of nefarious designed to them. That's complex, like if you look at most symbols of poker machines, they're not complex, simple, simple graphics. Exactly. So I don't think there's this idea that, that, you know, there's some sort of secret to them, is really what's going on, I think people are sort of focusing on the same idea with lights and things like that. It's more just general things that are used to show excitement or grab people's attention, as opposed to be anything particular. You know, there's all these myths about, you know, aristocrat employing teams of psychologists, which just, you know, isn't true. Okay.

Yeah, they employ a lot of graphic designers,

for the graphics.

Lots of mathematicians. Yeah. But you know, that you don't need to sort of have these very, you know, there's not something hypnotizing or anything like that about the symbols in and of itself. It's just that what they become paired with.

So yeah, so it's the same direction. So contextual pairing also. So like the, When you go,

Well, all learning is contextual. Okay. So

Yeah. So, you know, any, and that's the thing about conditioning is that as you know, meaning symbols have meanings in certain context. So yeah, so as I said, if I was to show this on YouTube to someone who did have a gambling problem, I probably they would show more arousal and someone that didn't, but they would show less around, they would if they would have stayed the same thing. Okay. In a gaming venue. That's what you're getting at?

Yeah, that's what I'm getting at. Thank you. Thank you for understanding.

So

with, When you with these clients, you get, and you've gone through the rounds? Do You said two months was that you said for like a week later, say after two months, they in your mind, there is a change? What is your measurable outcome of success with these clients?

Yep. So obviously, the time and money that they're spending, gambling, but also also, I guess how we just like we follow everyone up six months after they finish session. So even if like someone stops coming, and we think they're fine, we do check in later on. But it so it's more just to do with how they report conceptualizing gambling differently. So we want them to focus on You know, gambling as, as a loss making activity rather than actively

definitely.

And so it's really how we can gauge whether that conceptualization of gambling has changed.

And so from your from an outside, obviously, you're not in their head. You'd want to be know exactly how they're feeling. How, how from an outsider's perspective, do you judge this conceptualize?

It's more how they describe their thoughts on gambling, how they're describing how they, you know, acting around gambling now. So for example, if someone says, Oh, yes, it's just about being strong, it's about having willpower, that to me would say, actually, then a more work, because the fact that they're talking about strength, and willpower shows that there's still a strong desire to gamble. So that would suggest to me that you really do more, because they're focused about their views about taking away the desire to gamble, rather than putting barriers in place

 Exactly.

Yeah, so that's, I guess, really, it's about sort of the language that they use, is how we sort of get an indication of whether it's this person is ready to finish up sort of thing. Yeah,

Um, well, I, you said before, that you don't want to put barriers up, you want to take away? Why is that?

 Because barriers have can always be overcome. Like, if it's if the people still haven't decided to gamble, even if they're staying strong, or, you know, they do things like leave their credit cards on him and all this sort of stuff. There's either going to be a time either, There's always a way around these things. And to, there's always going to be a time when, for whatever reason, the weather this stressed or whatever, we're not going to have the that's a willpower one a better way of putting it. So it's much more helpful to address why someone wants to gamble in the first place and try and take that away, as opposed to try and put fences around it, so to speak.

This might be a really big question, why, in your opinion, but you can think about as long as you want. Why do people have? Why do Why are some people more prone to gamble than others?

The main thing is, is that people who develop a gambling problem almost invariably the first time they gambled, they won, And statistically, most people the first time they gamble, they lose. So it's not necessarily there's anything inherently wrong with these people, It's just that by pure random chance, they when the first time that they gamble, or amongst the first time, they gamble, So that means that they have a positive view of gambling. And what research and psychology generally shows is that first impressions do tend to last, And then following that, if they got that positive first impression, they're more likely to gamble. Even though the sum of their experiences they're going to lose more than the offer. And they will win often enough to sort of keep them going. There's other characteristics that appear to make it more likely to someone will develop a gambling problem. So obviously, not every one that wins the first time develops a gambling problem, but the traits like impulsivity, poor judgment, You know, mathematical reasoning, they play a role. But the crucial thing seems to be that that really, when So,

yeah, That makes a lot of sense. Like I had to do a lot of literature. He said before, that's going to be up on your someone of your level, Then I read Tell me from completely wrong, I've read. And I've been told by a lot of people that unfortunately,  You can't tell a problem gambling, yes, but no one's born a problem gambling, but

no one can be born a problem gambler. And because the thing is, by definition, as opposed to drugs and alcohol, There's two ways that gambling is very different. And they matter. The first is with drugs and alcohol, you know, If you're going to drink X amount of alcohol, it's going to get have a xy effect on your body. If you take an X amount of another, any drug, It's gonna have wide effect in your body. And the more you take, the more intoxicated You're going to be, as opposed to gambling, You don't know. Because anytime you push a button on a big machine, anytime you put a bet on at a Tab Window, we know, you don't know if you're going to win or lose. So you don't know how much money you have to gamble to get that hit, so to speak, or if it's coming up. The second thing is, if I was to take someone, I don't know, like, from some, you know, lost tribe somewhere, and give them alcohol or give them heroin, What do you think is going to happen?

They're going to abuse it.

Not that they're going to abuse it, but they're at least going to feel

the same effect on them as anyone else. Yeah. If I was to show them a roulette wheel or a poker machine, Yeah, that, that have no clue. Yeah, yeah. Because gambling is by its nature, symbolic. You have to learn it. Yeah, it doesn't have a direct impact on your biological systems. And on top of that, it's symbolic. And also the way that you have to, you know, the output that you're searching for, essentially, is money. Money in and of itself is something you have to learn about. It's not something that we're born knowing what money is. So gambling, by its definition, has to be a learned behavior. It can't be something biologically driven.

If, if it's not something biologically driven. I, If do you think for people obviously not beginning, if someone who is has probably half a lot has learned the behavior and knows the roulette wheel machine? There is a bit of work into the idea of that somethig I think it's probably dopamine in your brain that it's released the same way. It's I mean, so if you have any sex, or if you have any drug, it's released in the same way, and it becomes addictive. Do you think I

mean, is that what people seem to people seem to get caught up on top? I mean, First of all, there's been no research showing that gamblers have any different levels of dopamine in their body get anyone else? Yeah. So that's the first thing. Yeah, The second is, dopamine release when anything is in any way rewarding?

Okay. Yeah. So, obviously, if you win,

Yes, obviously, if you win, but also, you know, we talk about people talking about, you know, it's this idea of trying to shove all these sort of addictions in together, like, you know, sex is just the same as drugs or shopping. It's just the same as drugs. It's just something that people use, you know, dopamine is also released, when you feel you're doing well, in the exam. It's also released, when you feel you know, when you're playing the piano, is that something you do? At least? You know, when people are playing golf, or

they're reading a book, it's just a reward?

Yeah, that's me talking about those things being addiction. So it's sort of, It's really, essentially, when we talk about these behavioral addictions, essentially, what we're doing is putting sort of moral judgment on certain activities, they're doing too much of them is bad. Whereas other ones like we don't talk about people having study addictions, or reading addictions, or piano playing addictions.

Why Do you think there is that misconception that why do they want to try to not blame it on dopamine

so much people are blaming other gentlemen, it's just the problem. I think a little bit a lot of work in the clinical and the psychology as well is this desire for things to be taken seriously. So they try and copy a medicalized model. And when you copy a medicalized model, you have to use the sort of terms of reference that they do. And so if we put things in a sort of medicalized term, they seem to hold more, more power for people. Because it's people take you more seriously, if you say it's because there's something wrong with my brain, then I've learned something.

Yeah, exactly. And it's something physical. Yeah.

Yeah. So It's a common, I think it's a problem that's much bigger than in gambling. And I don't know what the word addiction but addictions research. But essentially, that's what it's taking this medical model, which probably isn't best applied for things like this.

It's really interesting. In terms of stepping back, he said, like it again, . There, I noticed with you tell me if if im completely wrong, I'm coming from a very entry level. Yeah. If location playing into problem gameplay, In terms of if you live in xy area, with a certain concentration of casinos, pubs all that you have a high percentage of chance to

Yeah, and there is research to show that places that are higher concentrations of gambling venues are more likely to have people with a gambling problem. So

Is it  because of like the amount of higher concentration? 

Yeah, yeah, it's more todo with availability. You know, there are some exceptions to that. But they usually can be explained. And, you know, also different countries and different regions within the country and different cultural groups do have different attitudes towards gambling, which can involve different rates of gambling in different cultural groups.

So What are the exceptions you said before, like with with a higher concentration or

So the two cultural groups in the world which have the highest rates of problem gambling, People from Chinese backgrounds, regardless of where they live? And Anglo Australians

Yeah, absolutely, actually. Is there any correlation? Like Why? Why are those two groups the highest level?

It's not? It's not entirely like there's different factors for both. But it's also clear, so when you say they're, like for most psychological disorders, say depression, stress, anxiety, drug and alcohol problems? immigrant groups, migrant groups have higher rates of pretty much any mental disorder, Then people who are born in Australia, with the exception of problem gambling,

 Wow. 

So with the exception of Chinese, people from Greek, Italian, being amazed, Arabic speaking backgrounds have lower rates of problem gambling than Anglo Australians.

Do you think that's a societal thing?

Yeah, it's more about some certain aspects. And, you know, we could be talking about it for hours, but  Australia's history and Australia's political history and economic history. That's why we have higher rates of problem gambling.

 One minute, just going into was a really brief overview, if you can,

two reasons.

Compared to other European countries, the church has historically been very weak in Australia as a social force. And that's been the main thing that stopped gambling spreading in Europe and North America. The other is that the early settlers in Australia tended to be from social groups where gambling was more accepted. So the military and convicts with early settlers Australia, So they were groups that tended to gamble more heavily. And as a result of our society growing from those groups, it's more likely that we have higher rates of people accepting gambling, generally is a social activity, which leads to higher rates of problem gambling.

And Do you think that's really interesting? I never really thought about the history of it.Do you ever think that the normalization of gambling in Australia and culture has had a wider impact on the like, not condoning the behavior of gambling, but like, enabling it to a certain degree?

About Australia, in terms of gambling has much higher rates of gambling expenditure than any other country in the world per capita? Like by far? Yeah. And part of that is, is for those historical reasons, that mean that gambling has been legalized much earlier in Australia, that has been anywhere else. So gambling is more widespread. But to an extent, It also the harms related with gambling, also better understood by most Australians, and they are in other countries. So It's, even though it surely has slightly higher rates of problem gambling, It's not in line with how much more we can both Australians gamble a lot more than other countries. Yeah. But the rates of problem gambling are any slightly high. Okay.

That's actually so there's more casual gambling, if that's a word. Yeah. That's it. Thank you. Let me just make sure I've got everything because I know we've gone over your half an hour. At one last little sub question, in terms of the system that we have in Australia now to minimize the enabling of access gambling to these gamblers. What, what can we do better? To as from your background in psychology, what can we do better to?

I think what would help most would be better understanding of how various forms of gambling work. So there's a lot of myths about how both machines work a lot of myths about how easy it is to make money from betting on sports or betting on horses. And I think better education and awareness of how these things actually work will probably be the best way of, of talking about gambling

in this country. And because of those aformentioned reasons, and that lack of knowledge, like I lack is also like lack of acknowledgement in that. Do you working in the field Do you get a lot of remission? Like people coming back? Not remission? Sorry? Returned! 

it depends, like, yes, there is high rates of relapse. At our clinic, we have lower rates of relapse than they do and in other gambling clinics, and so on. But Yeah, there is always going to be in anything like any sort of psychological issue, There is going to be people who continue to struggle with issues for a while. However, most people do, to get better.

From yy, from your point, why do you think some people struggling like, some people get different again, that's a million dollar question.

Yeah. Um, you know, there's different factors, like for some, it can be. Yeah, it really is difficult to say like this, you know, a million different reasons why someone might might relapse instead of predicting it before time can sometimes be difficult.

And Finally, before I let you back, A common one play packaging for smokers was implemented. Reese, it's quite recent. Yeah. So that had quite a big effect with smoking. Yeah. And it's going towards the idea of like  having the same kind of campaign. So like, how the government? Obviously, there's been a lot of money from him. Yeah. And same with gambling. 

The difference is, is that the health care costs of smoking far exceed what the government gets back in tobacco exercise, Right? Yeah. Oh, with gambling, the cost of addressing problem gambling is far less than what the government receives and given based revenue.

And do you think that would play into the idea of not being able to implement a system? Like a plain package System?

Yeah, well, I like for example would be right now for gamblers like the gambling rooms at pubs, all the windows are down, obviously. Now there's clocks and machines, which is really good. But alcohol is always readily available. All that well. That's that that's

the paper about the paper. Yeah.

Funny story, though. Really quickly, I was at the pub your day. And so a guy from the machine got four times and on pay for a drink. And I asked the owner and it turned the whole thing. But Anyway, that was something else that I'll leave that for another day. But what I'm saying is say if we remove the Echo, even if that paid for, And we open the blinds, put clocks in and everywhere. If we did all that, do you think that would have any change in your field?

I think it would change for some people but I don't think it would be a massive change

like it was

just becauseyou know, gambling is moving in different areas. Now we're seeing more gambling. That's done online, particularly with wagering gambling, which is the only legal campaign you can do online but yeah, online poker machines and online poker. online casino games are legal in Australia.

Oh, that. Oh, okay. That's really interesting. Yeah. So but wagering? 

wagering so that's bettingon horses horse farms, this is the obviously is legal sports betting apps, all that. Okay. That's cool. Yeah. What's your opinion on like, Video game betting, with like, micro transactions and all that?

It's a very new sort of area. Yeah, I'm really notice. I think there was a scandal recently in that people were throwing video games and betting on them. So it sort of Yeah. And so I'm not I'm not actually quite sure what the legislation is on at the moment. But

Yeah, I I'm not gonna pretend to be

dead. That's all good.

Yeah, I think that's all I'm saying that thank you so much.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
