So I'm just starting off what So You said your average day before? How long have you worked in this field for in gambling,

Ive worked in gambling, counseling, and generally, three years and couple of months?

Okay, what did you do before? 

I was a counselor, but I was working for domestic violence.

Right. So you got to see so much commonalities between the two or had to make the switch?

 Well, I guess it's very, I mean, the kinds that involve is complex with complex trauma. Similarly, in that sense, but the nature of work is very good. Because the nature of the people I worked for, what we call as the NGO. I worked at St. Vincent.

Branch, I think is I think they have a gambling branch to I was looking at to

So What made you switch? Was there a

 to gain a different experience, and also this particular role when they came up was actually mainly for the Chinese community? Also, I was interested in that because I speak the language and with my experience, and I'm always, you know, passionate with social justice. So

So here you are, you've worked into social justice or all that. So What's it like working with these patients? What's your typical day look like? Like a hospital? The clinic? How many patients do you see on the usual day?

It depends. Sometimes we get really busy and it can be 40-45 because we do live, one on one, Wow. They also do can be like, couple, couple counseling as well. So

you do a couple of counseling.? 

You also call significant others and not just there problem gambling? Okay. Yeah. 

Cuz it, and you find that it's really helpful doing the significant other than the couple canceling to? 

Yeah. 

What Why, why do you think that? Like? What's the external effect?

I mean, one, I mean, a couple of things. One thing is like the problem, gamblers normally, very unlikely that they will seek help

Its alot of family who makes them seek help and often force them to go and get help

 Yeah, exactly. So Do you find that like the family is one of the main driving factors,

Yeah they are, you know, and when they see the problem is having a light shine on them. The family just wants to help. But by themselves the gambler will never go to treatment on their own accord

With a lot of my work that I've looked into, I found that the definition of a problem gamblers its not set in stone, like it's quite adaptive, it's a spectrum, if that makes sense. What So if someone comes to you and say that the problem, As you said before, these families that have problems, How do you? How do you perceive that someone has a problem, like what some heuristics you make certain decisions you make? 

So you'retalking about, like, what's the reason they come to the services?

More like makes them realise they have a problem

For Problem Gambling, from their perspective, So normally, when they come to realize they have a problem is because they are forced to see that way, Okay, to be recognized. So, for example, relationship breaks down. someone in their lives said they have had enough when she had to know, You are  in so much debt, and you know, you're not, you're not helping the family, you're actually using more money right now and used to spending most of the time you know, gambling. And I'm not going to be with you if you're not going to change.

Okay, that makes sense to say you find that. So again, that the family's quite a driving factor. Exactly. With. So, if you take a step back,. Obviously, there's a lot of people that can gamble responsibly and responsibly. What do you think the line is for someone that when someone is a problem gambler?

Well, my definition of the gambling is really becoming very debilitating, affecting the everyday lives. And it becomes like a major force of the problems in their lives

So you figure it forces external forces to outside of the gambling to come to light?

Exactly like relationship family, legal, financial all these matters

For the Responsible Gambling, with the flu, actually, we have a criticism of the campaign that we've had, and which is, you know, people can control can take control of the money they spend on, gambling they can get control over this But the problem gamblers they cannot control the amount of money they spend

With this with control? Do you find that a lot of problem gamblers are in control of their spending?

The majority are not in control

But do they percieve they are in control of the amount they are spending?.

They always have this one thing that we find is they have this unrealistic view Right? This is one of the characteristics because they always think that our next bet is going to win, and the next bet will make the whole thing change Next, tomorrow, I'm going to be a millionaire. So You know, all these unrealistic? And somebody would say, is not unrealistic for me because it's possible.

Yeah, exactly. Yeah.But the possi very low is very low. Yeah. 

And So do you think you think that's one of the driving? Like, is that one of the driving factors why people keep on gambling, it says that they're gonna win the next time?

 Yeah

what are some other factors that you found?

Some do know that actually, they lose more money. Up to three years, I'm talking about, like, people that can go for over five years over ten year, there's over 15 years, of course, in that time span, and they know that they actually have lost so much time, but they always I mean, they don't actually see that, You know, but they dont actually see that. for example, that they may be using the gambling as a way to escape. They get all the excitment, you know, it is the trigger of the dopamine system , They act exactly the same as if they have a drug or alcohol addiction So what happening, they actually have these anticipation of  when I going to gamble, I'm going to get all these excitement, you know, fix all the problems I have in the world, I'm going to release all this pain you know, what is the issues that they dont have to think about anything that, you know, bother them or my family, or with my wife . that outweigh all the losses and all the problems? 

Yeah. So that in that in, in their mind that it's a way to escape? And Do you find that a lot of these people, what are they escaping from?

is not necessarily in their mind, they are not necessarily conscious of what they are doing. Not in a way that never , they're not aware of the reality. Do you think they

 What are these factors that contribute to like this get more than that? What do they want to escape from?

various things, but one of the most common phenomenon was these people all coming from a background with complex trauma, and all comobility with mental health issues. Yeah, so there's lots of things that may trigger that. For example, like people may be expressing the kind of borderline personality disorder, and adaptation, and they will probably have this kind of, you know, erratic behavior. And when they really, you know, feeling, the overwhelming feeling of being abandoned, For example, and they will just, you know, I know, they couldn't help. And also, it also involves, like, the loss of active  regulations, and things when they can last all the way that uncomfortable, or, you know, the pain or whatever they they name it, the difficulty they face, and they cannot tolerate. So the only the only way out for this patient is just to gamble

Do you think that them going to gamble? Like that is like a cycle. So when they gamble, they get stressed, they stress and when they're stressed, they get gambled on the other side? How do you as someone treating them? How do you get them out of that cycle?

They need to be treated, they need to recognize by asking earlier  I realize this is a problem, because when they were going to have those external factors that caused them to say, Okay, this is actually not right.The second one is, when they come to the treatment, or when they come to those services, or when they go to even GA, yeah, they need to be able to recognize that not only recognize that they need to be aware of what is triggering them to go down that route. And This is that.  It's a self learning and self awareness and learning process of you know, what is actually making them feel that that discomfort, and then that discomfort causing thing, for example, to go down that route

Do you find thatt isn't their problem they're trying to solve inside of them? Is that really unique? Is it hard for you, as someone treating them? Do you? Do you find it hard share that, because Problem Gambling stems from so many unique angles?

Exactly. I mean, everybody's different. Yeah. But there's some like common traits, like, the triggering factor is something that, you know, it says, you know, can be pain,  can be dis comfortable, or whatever your name is that factors that will also be there, to seeking, you know, a quick solution, you know, to, That's why one of the treatment that we gave is to actually make them aware that this urges, when you actually realize the urges is that'd be like, an integral part of life. Like, there's a name for that it's called a wave. You haveto wait for the waves to be to get through.  Before the wave comes, you always have that excitment and urge to gamble. you have to ride the wave out to exactly the same. And you as you find that is a quite a common trait between everyone. 

Its very common

The second one was, Sorry, The second one is also you'll find, they quite often they they see they seen the winnings, but quite often they dont see the losing. They dont count what they loss, only what they win And that's another thing. And also, when they lose, They want to chase back

Do you find that they don't have a perception of how much they lose? So there's nothing out there that says, you've lost say they put $100 in there's no one saying that you've lost eighty dolars or that you've won 10 is that? So do you find that one of the biggest factors?

Exactly. that actually relates to the unrealistic you know, it's the amount of realistic thinking pattern they have

do think is like a selective memory they have of this, unlike they unrealistically think that all I won  that one time a while ago, so I have to win again. Like it's my time to win

 I think that can be also related to your science, you know, like, the way that the neurons fire and try to get the neurons that fire together wire together. And the firing  when they are like the winning something excitement, the pleasure, you know, as you know,. you all, all the good experience, you know, that is very, very strong.  whereas, you know, when he you know, losing all the winnings, you know, its not as necessairily as strong.

So when they lose, Obviously, they're not that neuron and isn't firing, because I haven't been there's no dopamine released. What makes him go Okay, I need to keep going In the gambling. Like, why if I lose wanting that feel that desire to keep on game?

Yeah, because they always believe they will win the next win

And that and, and in your treatment, how do you make make it so they know they won't win, or they won't win the amount of money I put in?

Well, treatment, for me, is not so much about a quantity or the because they know all the numbers they actually know more than you do. Okay, can actually tell you, you know, the formula they have. They can tell you they are predicted to win, they know the numbers

So do you think that's like that illusion of control? Do you think that plays into it?

Yeah in their head they have this control they know when to stop, but from an external look they havev no control. So for me, I am more like focusing? Well, this is one of the things that you need to point out to them. But the thing is, I mean, the more fundamental behind is, you know, hat is actually making them think that way with gambling? For me it is, especially for people who are presenting with complex trauma or other mental health issues.

How do you how do you treat? If someone comes in with accountability with like other mental illness? What do you treat first? Do you treat the gambling? What do you treat the other?

Really, like? I think the mental health is just one of the biggest things that you can I mean, for me it is a combination. I mean, it really depends on the person What is the more risky thing? What do we need to actually fix first. If it more important for a family somebody come so like suicidal? And you know, of course we need to address that first.

You know, all somebody's going to lose their house and what are you going to help them

So taking astep back and say so when you go into like a pub. So I My research is that they're focusing on pubs, casinos  because they are a whole another world.

Why would you choose pubs out of intrest?

pubs it's more theres less regulations, for example, like RSLs because I'm not have a income relies on the poker machines. And we're looking at, like,  I'm doing more the psychology part, but my friend is doing more than venues and have the venues enable.My next question was, what's your opinion on bars, and their treatment of gamblers?

And lots of things, because I've heard so many times. I actually went to the gaming exhibition last year. Oh, really? Yeah, it was, that was very interesting. Because you I mean,you are reverse engineering it. The enabling by these machinesis  about psychology,

For example, EGM is actually one of the biggest, you know, avenue for gambling. Yeah. And they, the technical tactic they use is basically using using the pictures, the colors, everything. THey use this idea of The fairy tale, the cartoon, relating to the childhood, You know, all these things is all combined. Like, almost like a comfort food, you know, offering an incentive to gamble of, you know, all the food, all the credits they can use for free food and drinks Yeah, my clients told me, even though they just hear the sounds, it  can trigger them.

So like those gambling  RSLs and gambling roomsfor example, like, I go to the chatswood RSL because it is close to meJust in general sense. The bathroom, as an example, is actually It's in the middle of the poker room Do you think the venues enable Gamblers?

Yeah, You have no idea how many actually, if you read the research, and the statistic is the highest in in Australia, Do you know Australia is one of the highest in the world for gambling loss. Its also the number of machines they allow in the community is the highest in the world

All the manufactuers, they actually can set the probability of how much money they make out of each machines. Its the highest profitable in Australia and lowest probability in Australia

why do you think that is? Why is it in Australia 

Because of the gambling industry? Its big money for the tax

But like, Why? Why do you think Australians are like this? Why do they gamble so much

Well I think in like venuees like what you were saying how they put toilet in the middle of the gaming machines that people have to walk past, you know, to get to the toilet, all the the restaurants. And also they offer the probably the most expensive, the best quality, And also these gamblers were treated like VIP, If you know that if you're going gamble, you get credit, and you should use it for free drinks and free I mean, for somebody, imagine in a community there who are depressed, who are you know, retired, or who are just, you know, isolated, nobody, no friends, or you know, have very few little, you know, things to go to gamble. what else you're going to do.?

And do you think the government has an arm in putting them in the community? 

Yeah, do you think they dont know what they are doing? Well, they fund our services and all that, but where do they get the money for that? Gambling has got the biggest profit- they get all the tax from it

The had to do something because the problem is so big. But, I mean, you see them and then he talks about, you know, responsibility. But you when you talk about Responsible Gambling its only with people who are functioning and not addicted, its not those people who are .

And if you look at even the price, I mean, now you're talking about not just about the machines, gambling is everywhere, its online, you know, the gaming industry is a massive, Yeah. And those are the most invisible and hidden, and also the most powerful, because you know, it's 24 by seven, you know, even leave your house. Yeah, you as a student, you can have access to stuff,

And so and you think so yeah, the access to it is a massive driving factor. Do You think so? 

And they allow the prime time advertisement

That's is that is that because that's really ingrained throughout sports culture? Is that whole idea of prime time? Is it a sporting event, a sporting event, something that's a massive trigger? Say that you are at home and youre a problem gambler and see a SportsBet ad, its a trigger.

Yeah, I would definitely say you agree.

So we were talking about the mental health and all that When they get into remission, get into remission with you. And they had the family has bought into  remission, what was your first few steps that you use? Like to get them to talk about a gambling and get down to that deeper issue? What do you do?

One of the things in counseling is we talk about therapeutic relationship is very important, right? So people come and see you and at their most vulnerable time. And they come to see they believe, you know, you may be able to offer them the help. And all these you know, preconceived ideas. And The most important thing is we we are in the in the counseling room to be able to help this people is let them know, we're not judging. Yes. Right. Because hopefully, they'll be judged by someone people around them, they have a sense of, you know, feeling guilty or shame and they

Do they judge themselves? Are they quite shameful of their addiction?

Yeah, absolutely. This is shame, the stigma attached to gambling or any addiction in the community. So Yeah, absolutely. So This is one of the the thing that we need to be able to, you know, we want  to be able to remove the barriers first, so that they started, you know, they are in a safe environment to explore what is happening and what is actually causing them to be in this situation.

What's your end goal? If What do you aim to do in treatment? If someone When do you go to someone go, okay, you're not better or worse? When are you? Okay?

Well, basically, I do collaborate. I'm working with a client, It really depends on the situation, And what level they're at. Yeah, you know, and because time they come in different stages, As you know, the transtheoretical theory

Whats that? Basically, somebody may be still in denial, or somebody may be doing some contemplaying the stage they are up to -  Maybe I can do something, maybe, maybe I'll just go back in there. Sometimes they do go back, sometimes they dont Yeah and from that they go - ok i can see I have a problem, lets solve this problem and fiure it out

Yeah, exactly.

Oh, you know, they may be okay, I can do it. But you know, and then something happened and then they go straight back into the gambling.

So your aim is to change the perception. That's what you aim for?

I dont do the treatment for them, what im saying is that the treatment is really up to them. Yeah, exactly.

Yeah. So I work with them to hopefully shift their viewpoint and change their perception

Its a massive process that I work with my clients.

And so do they set their own goals? Yes. Yeah. So they go. How long? I want to be here. Yeah. Okay. And then you obviously work with them to get to that point.Do you find there's a Is there any relapse, you find? 

Oh, absolutely. Just like any addiction

Why? Why do you Why do you think there is relapse first of all?

Well, there's lots of reasons. You know, you can look at, you know, we are kind of, you know, habitual being, You think that is almost like, from the behavioral point of view, and if you keep the lolly to dog, you know, sweet and they like it. And they will just next time when they feeling that they have the craving for the sweet, they would go for it. And

So do you want to put up a like, remove that craving? Is that like a big part of the treatment?

Yeah, one of the parts

Yeah. So they have to do something with really, the fundamentals. What What is this happening in your life, self self development, self care.

Let me have a look at the questions as well make sure I've got through everything.

we literally hit everything where that Maven

which is great. Oh, this is my last little bit. What? What is in place right now to minimize gambling, addiction.

You talking about the surface of your

Services? legislation? Anything? What? What barriers Are we putting up to try and help with gambling addiction>

I don't think the government is doing much I mean, in terms of like, marketing and advertising is actually quite strong, especially targeting. Yeah, every sports betting ad

even the money they put on for services like ours is actually not that much in comparison to the amount they make

Actually, one of the biggest Tax Tax I get cigarettes

Also, the number of problems are rising in gambling, so you can see they are not actually doing much

Do you think that is in relation to a higher capita gambling machines?

Yes, that's one of the reasons

Yeah, absolutely. What else? What other reasons? 

Easy access, you know. The internet, you know. Not enough education, awareness. Right. That's why I even I feel that we need more like to educate the community about gambling

a lot a lot of my research is showing like  knowing their losses and knowing that educating them in a certain way toabout the loss. for someone working in the field, If saying we could tell them, you've lost this amount of money, you could spend this money on something else, and having a really accessible healthcare services and reducing the access to gambling machines, do you reckon that would have an impact?

Yeah it would. And also, early intervention is very important. So you really like doing a lot of work at school?

Okay. Yeah, there's nothing at school right there is I don't think

Yeah, there are some services they do like talking, but its very scattered. But its  not good

. I remember healthy Harold was like,was just for like, smoke. Drink. There's nothing for gambling

I'm not educated in Australia. That my secondary school, but yeah, you can tell

only only from like, when you in year one. So when you are about 6 or 7 you get the health talking about smoking and drinking. And there's no there's all about health, but there's nothing about mental health. Do you think that would tie into it? 

So absolutely. Early, early onset, so like the way we did with smoking? 

Yeah, exactly. Do you think cause smoking in Australia? We were actually pretty good with it. We have plain packaging and all that. Do you think that would say if we had the same approach to gambling as we do with smoking

Absolutely.Even self exclusion is not really effective. Because like a lot of people like excluded are like still going.

Yeah, there's not really there's no no security guard at the door.

Because the reason they always say they always lie and we have security we have self exclusion policy is talking about, you know, we're responsible for to community, but its all about make money. It's true, but you know, we do. I mean, so.

Yeah. And like, for example, with RSLS, They were dwindling back in like the late 1980s and 90s. And when they implemented gambling, And like when that came became a big thing in Australia, and then their   numbers went right up. And they they get a lot of money very quickly.

Exactly. It's a big thing. Like that idea of gambling. It's just so ingrained into our culture that we need to have start the education early. 

Do you know that most of the machines that all in the the pubs and clubs are owned by Woolworths?

Yes, I saw that that recently like it recently came out

And they don't want to trouble because they're the ones putting the the machines into our community, its all for the money

So do you think its all about the money?

Yeah it is, its just like the way we did with smoking but gambling has no regulation around it. You always have the choice, but with gambling its not clear what youre losing or how much you are losing

perfect. No, that's honestly what I want them to

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
